**Final-Repository---Extra-Credit---s4-jelfman**
# Lab 5 Commands
!Note: Just figured out now how to mkae the command boxes prettier.

```bash
echo "((Hemichordata,Echinodermata),(Cephalochordata,(Urochordata,(Agnatha,(Chondrichthyes,((Amphibia,(Sauropsida,Mammalia)Amniota)Tetrapoda,Actinopterygii)Euteleostomi)Gnathostomata)Vertebrata))Chordata)Deuterostomia;" > ~/lab05-$MYGIT/subphyla.tre
```
•	`echo`: Outputs this long text string, which represents a phylogenetic tree structure for various subphyla.
•	Tree structure: `"((Hemichordata,Echinodermata)...Deuterostomia"` specifies relationships between different groups in the evolutionary tree in Newick format.
•	`>`: Redirects the output into a file.
•	Output file (`~/lab05-$MYGIT/subphyla.tre`): Creates or overwrites the file subphyla.tre in Lab 5, storing this tree structure.

```bash
nw_display ~/lab05-$MYGIT/subphyla.tre
```
•	`nw_display`: Loads and displays the subphyla.tre file, giving a quick view of the relationships in the tree.

```bash
nw_reroot subphyla.tre Vertebrata >subphyla.reroot.tre
```
•	`nw_reroot`: This command re-roots the tree file at a specified node.
•	Node `Vertebrata`: Sets the "Vertebrata" group as the new root of the tree.
•	`>` and Output file (`subphyla.reroot.tre`): Saves this rerooted tree as subphyla.reroot.tre.

```bash
mkdir ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam
```
•	`mkdir`: Creates a new directory.
•	Folder path (`~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam`): Specifies the location and name of the new folder, which once again will store files related to my gene family.

```bash
cd ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam
```
•	`cd`: Changes the directory.
•	Path: Moves you into the heatshockfam folder within Lab 5.

```bash
sed 's/ /_/g' ~/lab04-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologs.al.fas | seqkit grep -v -r -p "dupelabel" > ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas
```
•	`sed 's/ /_/g'`: Replaces all spaces with underscores in heatshockfam.homologs.al.fas.
•	Pipe `|` and `seqkit grep`: Passes the modified output to seqkit grep, which filters out sequences containing "dupelabel."
•	`>` and Output file: Saves the filtered sequences as heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas in the Lab 5 directory.

```bash
iqtree -s ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas -bb 1000 -nt 2
```
•	`iqtree -s`: Runs IQ-TREE on the specified sequence file.
•	Input file (`~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas`): The aligned sequence file that IQ-TREE will analyze.
•	`-bb 1000`: Requests 1,000 bootstrap replications to test the reliability of each branch.
•	`-nt 2`: Uses two CPU threads, which can speed up the analysis.

```bash
nw_display ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile
```
•	`nw_display`: Loads and displays the tree file generated by IQ-TREE.
•	File path: Specifies the path to heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile for display.

```bash
Rscript --vanilla ~/lab05-$MYGIT/plotUnrooted.R ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile.pdf 0.4 15
```
•	`Rscript --vanilla`: Opens R
•	Script path: The R script plotUnrooted.R made by Dr. Rest is used to create an unrooted tree plot.
•	Tree file: `heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile` is the input tree to be visualized.
•	Output file: The PDF, `heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile.pdf`, will contain the unrooted tree plot.
•	Parameters `0.4 15`: Additional setings to format the tree plot.

```bash
gotree reroot midpoint -i ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.fas.treefile -o ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile
```
•	`gotree reroot midpoint`: Sets the midpoint as the root of the tree.
•	`-i`: Specifies the input tree file.
•	`-o`: Specifies the output file, saving the midpoint-rooted tree as heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.

```bash
nw_order -c n ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile | nw_display -
```
•	`nw_order -c n`: Orders the nodes by name in heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.
•	Pipe `|` and `nw_display -`: Pipes the ordered tree to nw_display, showing the tree structure.

!Note nw_order sounds like what ChatGPT's revolutionary banner will be.

```bash
nw_order -c n ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile | nw_display -w 1000 -b 'opacity:0' -s > ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.svg
```
•	`nw_order -c n`: Orders nodes by name? 
•	`-w 1000`: Sets the width of the output image to 1000 pixels.
•	`-b 'opacity:0'`: Sets background opacity to 0.
•	Output file: Saves as `heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.svg`, an SVG file. 
```
convert ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.svg ~/lab05-$MYGIT/heatshockfam.homologsf.al.mid.treefile.pdf
```
• This final step converts the SVG file into a PDF. This PDF is also included in the results file of this folder.